docs(uib): hr management use cases (#2831)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: modules/applications/pages/ui-builder/common-apis-to-use.adoc

= Common APIs to use

> :page-aliases: applications:common-apis-to-use.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As you added this page in this version, you don't need to add the :page-aliases: attribute. For more details: https://docs.antora.org/antora/latest/page/page-aliases/

> :description: Explore the most commonly used APIs and JS objects for building an app like HR Management in UIB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Discover frequently used Bonita APIs and JavaScript objects to efficiently build applications like an HR Management tool in the UI Builder.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: Discover frequently used Bonita APIs to efficiently build complex applications in Bonita UI Builder.
```

{description}

Bonita APIs combined with JS objects allow for building all kind of applications, such as: account management dashboard, custom CRM, HR Management tool, invoice processing dashboard, and many more.

> image:ui-builder/guides/hr-mgmt-app.png[hr-mgmt-app]

Reviewer 2: Since we're removing references to the HR management app, should we keep this picture? I don't have a strong opinion on this

== Commonly used APIs

While how JS objects are designed highly depends on your need, here are the most frequently used Bonita APIs you will very likely need for your applications.

=== Session
The session API is useful for retrieving session information for the current user.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/system/session/unusedId`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/Session/operation/getSession[session API documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/Session/operation/getSession[session API documentation].
```

=== Users
The users API is useful for retrieving a list of users by applying pagination parameters and filters.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/identity/user?c=10&p=0&time=0&o=lastname+ASC&f=enabled=true`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/User/operation/searchUsers[users API documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/#tag/User/operation/searchUsers[users API documentation].
```

=== Human tasks
The human tasks API is useful to retrieve a list of human tasks by applying pagination parameters and filters.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/bpm/humanTask?c=10&p=0&f=state=ready&f=caseId=[caseId]`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/HumanTask/operation/searchHumanTasks[human tasks api documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the l{openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/HumanTask/operation/searchHumanTasks[human tasks api documentation].
```

=== User task context
The user task context API provides the context for a specific user task identified by its id.

For example:

    - GET | `/bonita/API/bpm/userTask/[taskId]/context`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/UserTask/operation/getContextByUserTaskId[context by userTask id api documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/UserTask/operation/getContextByUserTaskId[context by userTask id api documentation].
```

=== Processes
The process API is used to retrieve a list of process by applying pagination parameters and filters.

For example:

    - GET | `/bonita/API/bpm/process?c=10&p=0&f=name=[processName]&f=activationState=ENABLED` retrieves a list of specific process.
    - POST | `/bonita/API/bpm/process/[processId]/instantiation` is used to instantiate a process.

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/Process/operation/searchProcesses[processes API documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/Process/operation/searchProcesses[processes API documentation].
```

=== Business data
The business data is useful to find business data with pagination params and filters by invoking a `Named Query`. It allows to call either default or custom business data queries.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/bdm/businessData/com.company.hr.[businessObject]?q=[query]&p=0&c=10&f=[filterString]={filterParam}`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/BusinessDataQuery/operation/searchBusinessData[business data api documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/BusinessDataQuery/operation/searchBusinessData[business data api documentation].
```

=== Professional contact data
The professional contact data is useful to retrieve the professional contact details of a user by their id.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/identity/professionalcontactdata/[userId]`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/ProfessionalContactData/operation/getProfessionalContactDataById[professional contact data api documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/ProfessionalContactData/operation/getProfessionalContactDataById[professional contact data api documentation].
```

=== Group
The group api is used to retrieve a list of groups by applying pagination params and filters.

For example:

    - GET | `/API/identity/group?c=10&p=0&d=parent_group_id&t=0&o=displayName%20ASC`

> For more detailed information, refer to the link:https://api-documentation.bonitasoft.com/latest/#tag/Group/operation/searchGroups[groups api documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information, refer to the {openApiUrl}/latest/#tag/Group/operation/searchGroups[groups api documentation].
```
